README.md, before:

# art-DCGAN
Modified version of [Soumith Chintala's torch implementation](https://github.com/soumith/dcgan.torch) of [DCGAN](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1511.06434.pdf) with a focus on generating artworks.

## The most notable changes are:
* Doubled image size - now 128x128 instead of 64x64 (added a layer in both networks)

* Ability to resume training from checkpoints (simply pass -netG=[path_to_network], and -netD=[path_to_network]). While this is convenient, it also allows for experimentation with training on one set of images, and then later in training shifting to another set of images. This could aid in certain tasks, much like how pre-training in an unsupervised fashion helps with supervised learning problems.

* Included a horribly simple python script that will keep your checkpoint folder empty - it is meant for leaving running when you're training a GAN for a while, because sometimes I would come back to my computer in the morning after an overnight GAN session and have a hard drive with zero free bytes of disk space and a crashed GAN...

* Added a python 3 script (genre-scraper.py) that allows easy image-scraping from wikiart into the format the GAN can draw from.

* The inclusion of multiple pre-trained GAN's (.t7 files) that can generate various types of images, including 128x128 landscape oil paintings, 128x128 nude oil paintings, and others highlighted below.



## Usage:
### Prerequisites: ###
See [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md)

### General Usage: ###
The usage is identical to Soumith's - with the exception of loading from a checkpoint.

### Train a GAN on a folder of images

#### Start Training ####
`
DATA_ROOT=myimages dataset=folder ndf=50 ngf=150 th main.lua
`

You can adjust ndf (number of filters in discriminator's first layer) and ngf (number of filters in generator's first layer) freely, although it's reccomended that the generator has ~2x the filters as the discriminator to prevent the discriminator from beating the generator out, since the generator has a much much harder job.

Keep in mind, you can also pass these arguments when training:
```
batchSize=64              -- Batchsize - didn't get very good results with this over 128...
noise=normal, uniform     -- pass ONE Of these. It seems like normal works a lot better, though.
nz=100                    -- number of dimensions for Z
nThreads=1                -- number of data loading threads
gpu=1                     -- gpu to use
name=experiment1          -- just to make sure you don't overwrite anything cool, change the checkpoint filenames with this
```


#### Resume from checkpoint ####
`
DATA_ROOT=myimages dataset=folder netD=checkpoints/your_discriminator_net.t7 netG=your_driscriminator_net.t7 th main.lua
`
Passing ndf and ngf will have no effect here - as the networks are loaded from the checkpoints.

#### Generate images with a pre-trained net ####
`
net=your_generator_net.t7 th generate.lua
`
Very straightforward... I hope. Keep in mind; you can also pass these when generating images:
```
batchSize=36                      -- How many images to generate - keep a multiple of six for unpadded output.
imsize=1                          -- How large the image(s) should be (not in pixels!)
noisemode=normal, line, linefull  -- pass ONE of these. If you pass line, pass batchSize > 1 and imsize = 1, too.
name=generation1                  -- just to make sure you don't overwrite anything cool, change the filename with this
```
####There are more passable arguments on [the unmodified network's page](https://github.com/soumith/dcgan.torch#all-training-options) - I think I included the more important ones here though####

### Scraping Images from Wikiart ###
`genre-scraper.py` will allow you to scrape artworks from wikiart based on their genres. The usage is quite simple.
In `genre-scraper.py` there is a variable called `genre_to_scrape` - simply change that to any of the genre's listed on (this page)[https://www.wikiart.org/en/paintings-by-genre/], or to any of the values in the huge list of comments right after `genre_to_scrape` is defined. 

Run the program with python3 and a folder with the name of your genre will be created, with a subdirectory "images/" containing all of the jpgs. Point your GAN to the directory with the name of your genre (so if I did landscapes, i'd just change `genre_to_scrape` to "landscape", and then run my GAN with DATA_ROOT=landscape)


## Pre-trained networks ##
Due to the nature of github, and the 100+ MB nature of the pre-trained networks, you'll have to click a link to get the pre-trained models, but it's worth it. Below are some of them and examples of what they can generate.


### Landscape GAN ###
![Batch of Landscapes](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbiebarrat/Cool-DCGAN/master/images/landscapenet_waifu2x.png)
#### Download the weights! ####
##### [Generator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-_m9VM1w1bKUFBmV09VOWlmNG8) #####

##### [Discriminator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-_m9VM1w1bKaC1MRkNiMHp0VHM) #####

### Portrait GAN ###
![Batch of Portraits](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbiebarrat/Cool-DCGAN/master/images/portraitnet_waifu2x.png)
#### Download the weights ####
##### [Generator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-_m9VM1w1bKUXhmazg2eVF0bTA) #####

##### [Discriminator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-_m9VM1w1bKMVh4S21BNlhzNEE) #####

### Trained networks coming soon: ###
* Flower Paintings!
* Nude paintings (the results are looking super cool so far)
* Cityscapes
* Maybe an anime one because there are so many of those
* Maybe I'll load the pre-trained landscape ones and start training them on portraits... that might be cool...
* if you have a suggestion for a pre-trained net - I've opened up an issue where you can comment your ideas, or send me drive links to t7 files.

Commit message:

Added nude portrait network weights / images

README.md, after:

# art-DCGAN
Modified version of [Soumith Chintala's torch implementation](https://github.com/soumith/dcgan.torch) of [DCGAN](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1511.06434.pdf) with a focus on generating artworks.

## The most notable changes are:
* Doubled image size - now 128x128 instead of 64x64 (added a layer in both networks)

* Ability to resume training from checkpoints (simply pass -netG=[path_to_network], and -netD=[path_to_network]). While this is convenient, it also allows for experimentation with training on one set of images, and then later in training shifting to another set of images. This could aid in certain tasks, much like how pre-training in an unsupervised fashion helps with supervised learning problems.

* Included a horribly simple python script that will keep your checkpoint folder empty - it is meant for leaving running when you're training a GAN for a while, because sometimes I would come back to my computer in the morning after an overnight GAN session and have a hard drive with zero free bytes of disk space and a crashed GAN...

* Added a python 3 script (genre-scraper.py) that allows easy image-scraping from wikiart into the format the GAN can draw from.

* The inclusion of multiple pre-trained GAN's (.t7 files) that can generate various types of images, including 128x128 landscape oil paintings, 128x128 nude oil paintings, and others highlighted below.



## Usage:
### Prerequisites: ###
See [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md)

### General Usage: ###
The usage is identical to Soumith's - with the exception of loading from a checkpoint.

### Train a GAN on a folder of images

#### Start Training ####
`
DATA_ROOT=myimages dataset=folder ndf=50 ngf=150 th main.lua
`

You can adjust ndf (number of filters in discriminator's first layer) and ngf (number of filters in generator's first layer) freely, although it's reccomended that the generator has ~2x the filters as the discriminator to prevent the discriminator from beating the generator out, since the generator has a much much harder job.

Keep in mind, you can also pass these arguments when training:
```
batchSize=64              -- Batchsize - didn't get very good results with this over 128...
noise=normal, uniform     -- pass ONE Of these. It seems like normal works a lot better, though.
nz=100                    -- number of dimensions for Z
nThreads=1                -- number of data loading threads
gpu=1                     -- gpu to use
name=experiment1          -- just to make sure you don't overwrite anything cool, change the checkpoint filenames with this
```


#### Resume from checkpoint ####
`
DATA_ROOT=myimages dataset=folder netD=checkpoints/your_discriminator_net.t7 netG=your_driscriminator_net.t7 th main.lua
`
Passing ndf and ngf will have no effect here - as the networks are loaded from the checkpoints.

#### Generate images with a pre-trained net ####
`
net=your_generator_net.t7 th generate.lua
`
Very straightforward... I hope. Keep in mind; you can also pass these when generating images:
```
batchSize=36                      -- How many images to generate - keep a multiple of six for unpadded output.
imsize=1                          -- How large the image(s) should be (not in pixels!)
noisemode=normal, line, linefull  -- pass ONE of these. If you pass line, pass batchSize > 1 and imsize = 1, too.
name=generation1                  -- just to make sure you don't overwrite anything cool, change the filename with this
```
####There are more passable arguments on [the unmodified network's page](https://github.com/soumith/dcgan.torch#all-training-options) - I think I included the more important ones here though####

### Scraping Images from Wikiart ###
`genre-scraper.py` will allow you to scrape artworks from wikiart based on their genres. The usage is quite simple.
In `genre-scraper.py` there is a variable called `genre_to_scrape` - simply change that to any of the genre's listed on (this page)[https://www.wikiart.org/en/paintings-by-genre/], or to any of the values in the huge list of comments right after `genre_to_scrape` is defined. 

Run the program with python3 and a folder with the name of your genre will be created, with a subdirectory "images/" containing all of the jpgs. Point your GAN to the directory with the name of your genre (so if I did landscapes, i'd just change `genre_to_scrape` to "landscape", and then run my GAN with DATA_ROOT=landscape)


## Pre-trained networks ##
Due to the nature of github, and the 100+ MB nature of the pre-trained networks, you'll have to click a link to get the pre-trained models, but it's worth it. Below are some of them and examples of what they can generate.


### Landscape GAN ###
![Batch of Landscapes](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbiebarrat/Cool-DCGAN/master/images/landscapenet_waifu2x.png)
#### Download the weights! ####
##### [Generator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-_m9VM1w1bKUFBmV09VOWlmNG8) #####

##### [Discriminator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-_m9VM1w1bKaC1MRkNiMHp0VHM) #####

### Nude-Portrait GAN ###
![Batch of Nude-Portraits](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbiebarrat/Cool-DCGAN/master/images/nudenet_waifu2x.png)
#### Download the weights! ####
##### [Generator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-_m9VM1w1bKdFJkdUFlNFRGRVE) #####

##### [Discriminator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-_m9VM1w1bKUjdrckNQeGZqME0) #####


### Portrait GAN ###
![Batch of Portraits](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbiebarrat/Cool-DCGAN/master/images/portraitnet_waifu2x.png)
#### Download the weights ####
##### [Generator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-_m9VM1w1bKUXhmazg2eVF0bTA) #####

##### [Discriminator](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B-_m9VM1w1bKMVh4S21BNlhzNEE) #####

### Trained networks coming soon: ###
* Flower Paintings!
* Nude paintings (the results are looking super cool so far)
* Cityscapes
* Maybe an anime one because there are so many of those
* Maybe I'll load the pre-trained landscape ones and start training them on portraits... that might be cool...
* if you have a suggestion for a pre-trained net - I've opened up an issue where you can comment your ideas, or send me drive links to t7 files.
